---
layout: default
title: Bam-Bam
---

<span class="highlight-blue">Dear World,</span>

Meet Bam-Bam! 

Amber and I welcomed her to our family last June. We adopted Bam-Bam from an organization that had rescued her from the clutches of an unethical breeder. The poor creature lived in unsanitary conditions and was forced to deliver many batches of litters, without care for her own health. As a consequence of exposure to an unhealthy environment and gross negligence towards her well-being, she contracted various parasites, including heartworm. Unkept backyards in a tropical place like Houston often harbor dirty, wet patches and stagnant water, which can be fertile breeding grounds for mosquitoes that carry various parasites such as heartworms. Fortunately, Bam-Bam was treated promptly to prevent a major infection, and we are so thankful for the rescue. She now takes a monthly medicine to prevent the parasites from overwhelming her immune system. For the assurance of readers, heartworms do not spread to humans through contact with dogs.

Bam-Bam is 12 lbs, with hypoallergenic, white, and light-brown hair, and a slender body. From first impressions, one might guess that she is a cavchon, a mix of a cavalier and a Bichon Frise. But she has a longer body, which means there might be other mixes. Out of curiosity, we sent a saliva sample for DNA testing, and the results revealed that she is a mix of three pure breeds. She is 55% Maltese, 25% Schnauzer, and 20% Cocker Spaniel. The Cocker Spaniel mix fits her long, slender body. Her behaviour on sniff walks is reminiscent of snauzhers who love sniffing out rodents, especially rats, underground. Her soft, low-shedding coat, along with her calmness indoors and fondness to be a lap dog, are characteristics of a Maltese. 

We are so happy that she now has a safe home and regular food to thrive. Every morning, she wakes us up with cute, feeble attempts to talk like a human, which is her way of telling us it’s time to go outside. She is explorative during the walks and loves the breezy outdoors. To our inadvertent benefit, she likes to go on long walks around the neighborhood, which gives us the all-important early morning sunlight for our circadian rhythm and provides light physical exercise to replenish our bodies with oxygen. Because of Bam-Bam, our days are spent with vigor and energy as she keeps on bringing ripples of positive effects. We go for two more walks each day, one in the afternoon and one before going to bed. Altogether, these add up to more than 10,000 steps a day. Fascinating how a good deed compounds favorable outcomes.

The greatest superpower Bam-Bam possesses is her ability to turn our bleakest working days around. She unerringly melts our worries away with her gleaming affection, trust, and innocence. One of my happiest moments of each day is returning home from work to be welcomed by an on-rushing, frolicky, cute blob of love pacing down the stairs. She emphatically wags her tail with happiness, eager to give cuddles and licks. As an enabling doggy dad, I give her a tasty treat, which she then takes to the couch to enjoy after a charismatic leap. 

Alrighty, later then! Time to give some pets!